But  we 're gonna try to make this an abbreviated meeting cuz the the next next occupants were pushing for it , so . Agenda is according to this , is transcription status , DARPA demos XML tools , disks , backups , et cetera and grad h: Does anyone have anything to add to the agenda ? professor b: OK . grad h:  phd d: I g grad h: as a somewhat segue into the next topic ,  could I get a hold of  the data even if it 's not really corrected yet just so I can get the data formats and make sure the information retrieval stuff is working ? postdoc a: Certainly . So I 'll I 'll probably just make some copies of those rather than use the ones that are there . grad h:  and then just we 'll have to remember to delete them once the corrections are made . professor b: OK , wh phd d: I also got anot a short remark to the transcription . I 've  just processed the first five EDU meetings and they are chunked up so they would they probably can be sent to IBM whenever they want them . phd d: but the other ones phd f: That 's the one that we 're waiting to hear from them on . postdoc a: These are separate from the ones that phd f: As soon as postdoc a: these are phd f: They 're the IBM set . And so as soon as we hear from Brian that this one is OK grad h: Is my mike on ? Yeah . phd f: and we get the transcript back and we find out that hopefully there are no problems matching up the transcript with what we gave them , then  we 'll be ready to go and we 'll just send them the next four as a big batch , postdoc a: Excellent . grad h: And so we 're doing those as disjoint from the ones we 're transcribing here ? phd f: Yes , exactly . phd f: We 're sort of doing things in parallel , that way we can get as much done a at once . grad h: Yeah , I think that 's the right way to do it , phd f: Yeah . grad h: Right , which  So I 've been working on using the THISL tools to do information retrieval on meeting data and the THISL tools are there 're two sets , there 's a back - end and a front - end , so the front - end is the user interface and the back - end is the indexing tool and the querying tool . So at least on the one meeting that I had the transcript for  conveniently you can now do information retrieval on it , do type in a a string and get back a list of start - end times for the meeting , phd f: What what kind of  what does that look like ? The string that you type in . phd f: What are you are you are they keywords , or are they ? grad h: Keywords . grad h: Right ? And so and then it munges it to pass it to the THISL IR which uses an SGML - like format for everything . professor b: And then does it play something back or that 's something you 're having to program ? grad h: right now , I have a tool that will do that on a command line using our standard tools , professor b: Yeah . grad h: but my intention is to do a prettier user interface based either So so that 's the other thing I wanted to discuss , is well what should we do for the user interface ? We have two tools that have already been written . grad h:  the other option is Dan did the Tcl - TK THISL GUI front - end for Broadcast News professor b: Yeah . postdoc a: I Can I ask a question ? So  as it stands within the the Channeltrans interface , it 's possible to do a find and a play . So e Are you So you 're adding like  , I don't know ,  are they fuzzy matches or are they  ? grad h: It 's a sort of standard , text - retrieval - based So it 's  term frequency , inverse document frequency scoring . grad h:  and then there are all sorts of metrics for spacing how far apart they have to be and things like that . So it it 's postdoc a: It 's a lot more sophisticated than the  the basically Windows - based grad h: i it 's like doing a Google query or anyth anything else like that . grad h: So i it uses So it pr produces an index ahead of time so you don't you 're not doing a linear search through all the documents . Cuz you can imagine if with if we have the sixty hours ' worth you do wouldn't wanna do a search . grad h:  you have to do preindexing and so that these tools do all that . And so the work to get the front - end to work would be porting it well  to get it to work on the UNIX systems , our side is just rewriting them and modifying them to work for meetings . grad h: So that it understands that they 're different speakers and that it 's one big audio file instead of a bunch of little ones and just sorta things like that . phd f: So what does the user see as the result of the query ? grad h: On which tool ? phd f: THISL . grad h: The THISL GUI tool which is the one that Dan wrote , Tcl - TK phd f: Yeah . grad h:  you type in a query and then you get back a list of hits and you can type on them and listen to them . professor b: Mmm phd f: So if you typed in " small heads " or something you could grad h: Right , you 'd get phd f: get back a   something that would let you click and listen to some audio where that phrase had occurred grad h: something You you 'd get to listen to " beep " . It 's too bad that that couldn't come into the grad h: You couldn't get a video . phd g: Guess who I practice on ? postdoc a: At some point we 're gonna have to say what that private joke is , that keeps coming up . Yeah , it loo it my my recollection of it is it 's it 's a pretty reasonable  demo sort of format . grad h: And so I think there 'd be minimal effort to get it to work , minimally phd f: That sounds really neat . grad h: and then we 'd wanna add things like query by speaker and by meeting and all that sort of stuff .  Dave Gelbart expressed some interest in working on that so I 'll work with him on it . And it it 's looking pretty good , you know , the fact that I got the query system working . grad h: If we wanna get it to Windows it 's gonna be a little more work because the THISL IR , the information retrieval tool 's  , I had difficulty just compiling them on Solaris . phd f: But you were saying that that the  that there 's that set of tools , Cygnus tools , that grad h: So . grad h: But what those they what those do is provide sort of a BSD compatibility layer , professor b:   phd f: And you have to have all the o grad h: But the problem is that that the THISL tools didn't use anything like Autoconf and so you have the normal porting problems of different header files and th some things are defined and some things aren't and  different compiler work - arounds and so on . So the fact that  it took me a day to get it c to compile under Solaris means it 's probably gonna take me s significantly more than that to get it to compile under Windows . professor b: How about having it run under free BSD ? phd e: Well what you need grad h: Free BSD would probably be easier . phd e: All you need to do is say to Dan " gee it would be nice if this worked under Autoconf " and it 'll be done in a day . phd d:  phd e: Right ? grad h: Actually you know I should check because he did port it to SPRACHcore phd e: Right . professor b: So grad h: I 'll check at that professor b: But it would what would serve would serve both purposes , is if you contact him and ask him if he 's already done it . phd e: What I phd f: How does it play ? grad h: Yeah , right . professor b: If he has then you learn , if he hasn't then he 'll do it . So , and I 've been corresponding with Dan and also with   , SoftSound guy ,  postdoc a: It 's amazing . professor b: Tony Robinson ? phd f: Tony Robinson ? grad h: Do  Tony ? I guess I do . grad h: Which one do  ? phd e: Steve Renals is not SoftSound , is he ? professor b: No . grad h: so that 's all going pretty well , professor b: Assuming we 're phd e: Right . phd f: What about issues of playing sound files @ @ between the two platforms ? grad h: I think we 'll be OK with that . phd e: Why don't you try and merge Transcriber and THISL IR ? They 're both Tcl interfaces . grad h: Well this is one of the reasons This is the one of the reasons that I 'm gonna have  Dave Gelbart Gelbart Having him volunteer to work on it is a really good thing because he 's worked on the Transcriber stuff phd e: Right . But the point is that the Transcriber uses Snack and then you can but you can use a a lot of the same functionality and it 's grad h: Yeah , yeah , I I think THISL THISL GUI probably uses Snack . Well my thought was is that it would be nice it would be nice to have the running transcripts  eh you know , from speaker to speaker . grad h: And if it doesn't phd e: Right ? Do you have you have , you know , a speaker mark here and a speaker mark here ? grad h: Right , we 'll have to figure out a user interface for that , so . It might be fairly difficult to get that to work in the little short segments we 'd be talking about and having the search tools and so on . grad h: but professor b: The thing I was asking about with , free BSD is that it might be easier to get PowerPoint shows running in free BSD than to get this other package running in grad h: Yeah ,  we have to I have to sit down and try it before I make too many judgments , professor b: Yeah . grad h: so   My experience with the Gnu compatibility library is really it 's just as hard and just as easy to port to any system . grad h: It 's just , you know , just like all of them , the " include " files are a little different and the function calls are a little different . grad h: So I it might be a little easier but it 's not gonna be a lot easier . So there was that demo , which was one of the main ones , then we talked about  some other stuff which would basically be  showing off the the Transcriber interface itself and as you say , maybe we could even merge those in some sense , but but  ,  and part of that was showing off what the speech - non  nonspeech stuff that Thilo has done s looks like . postdoc a: Can I ask one more thing about THISL ? So with the IR stuff then you end up with a somewhat prioritized  ? grad h:   phd g: So another idea I w t had just now actually for the demo was whether it might be of interest to sh to show some of the prosody  work that Don 's been doing . phd g:  actually show some of the features and then show for instance a task like finding sentence boundaries or finding turn boundaries . professor b: Well I think at at the very least we 're gonna want something illustrative with that phd g: I don't know if that would be of interest or not . professor b: cuz I 'm gonna want to talk about it and so i if there 's something that shows it graphically it 's much better than me just having a bullet point phd g: Yeah . professor b: pointing at something I don't know much about , phd g: you 're looking at this now professor b: so . phd g: Are you looking at Waves or Matlab ? grad c:  yeah I 'm starting to and  Yeah we can probably find some examples of different type of prosodic events going on . phd g: Yeah def professor b: S so when we here were having this demo meeting , what we 're sort of coming up with is that we wanna have all these pieces together , to first order , by the end of the month phd g: I professor b: and then that 'll give us a week or so . The end of phd g: Oh , the end of this month or next month ? Oh , you mean like today ? grad h: This month . professor b:  that 'll that 'll give us that 'll give us a week or so to  to port things over to my laptop and make sure that works , phd e: Exactly . phd g: Yeah if d if Don can sort of talk to whoever 's professor b: Yeah . phd g: cuz we 're doing this anyway as part of our you know , the research , visualizing what these features are doing professor b: Yeah . professor b: so  , you know , to let s the goal is to let them know what it is we 're doing . professor b: So that 's phd g: I don't think anyone has done this on meeting data so it might be neat , you know . So I 've been doing a bunch of XML tools where you we 're sort of moving to XML as the general format for everything and I think that 's definitely the right way to go because there are a lot of tools that let you do extraction and reformatting of XML tools . So yet again we should probably meet to talk about transcription formats in XML because I 'm not particularly happy with what we have now .  it works with Transcriber but it it 's a pain to use it in other tools  because it doesn't mark start and end .  , but I 've installed XML tools of various sorts in various languages and so if people are interested in doing extracting any information from any of these files , either  information on users because the user database is that way I 'm converting the Key files to XML so that you can extract m  various inf  sorted information on individual meetings grad c: Cool . And so l just let me know there it 's mostly Java and Perl but we can get other languages too if if that 's desirable . Is do we have the the seat information ? In in the Key files now ? postdoc a:   grad h: The seat information is on the Key files for the ones which postdoc a: Ah . phd g: Oh in For the new one grad h: it 's been recorded , phd g: OK . phd g: I 'm just trying to figure out , you know , when Morgan 's voice appears on someone 's microphone are they next to him or are they across from him ? professor b: Yeah . phd f: how how w eh where is it in the Key file ? grad h: Right . phd g: Cuz  I haven't been putting it in and in by grad h: You haven't been putting it in . postdoc a: Isn't it always on the digits ? professor b: Some of these are missing . phd g: And professor b: Aren't they ? postdoc a: Isn't it always on the digits forms ? professor b: Some fall out of phd g: Well it grad h: Yeah so we can go back and fill them in for the ones we have . phd g:  they 're on th right , these , but I just hadn't ever been putting it in the Key files . phd f: Yeah I I never phd g: And I don't think Chuck was either phd f: I never knew we were supposed to put it in the Key file . phd g: cuz grad h: I had told you guys about it phd f: Oh really ? phd g: Oh , so we 're both sorry . grad h: but phd g: So grad h:  this is why I wanna use a g a tool to do it rather than the plain text phd g: OK . grad h: I think it 's Edit - key , command Did I show you guys that ? phd d: Yep . phd f: You mentioned it , grad h: I did show it to you , phd f: yeah . grad h: but I think you both said " no , you 'll just use text file " . grad h: Yeah , and so if you don't fill it in , you 're not gonna get it in the meetings . grad c: u grad h: Yeah and then the other thing also that Thilo noticed is , on the microphone , on channel zero it says hand - held mike or Crown mike , phd g: Yeah . phd g: maybe I forgot to d phd f: Takes me no time at all to edit these . grad h: Yeah that 's cuz you kn phd f: I 'm not doing anything . phd g: And I was I was looking at Chuck 's , like , " oh what did Chuck do , OK I 'll do that " . grad h: And then  also in a couple of places instead of filling the participants under " participants " they were filled in under " description " . Oh  also I 'm working on another version of this tool , the the one that shows up here , that will flash yellow if the mike isn't connected . And it 's not quite ready to go yet because  it 's hard to tell whether the mike 's connected or not because the best quality ones , the Crown ones , are about the same level if they 're off and no one 's o off or if they 're on and no one 's talking . So I 'm working on that and it it sorta works and so eventually we will change to that and then you 'll be able to see graphically if your mike is dropping in or out . grad c: Will that also include like batteries dying ? Just a any time the mike 's putting out zeros basically . phd f: But with the screensaver kicking in , it phd d: But grad h: Now phd d: y yeah . grad h:  the other thing is as I 've said before , it is actually on the thing . postdoc a: It would be nice if if these had little light indicators , little L E Ds for grad h:  buzzer . grad h: " Bamp , bamp ! " professor b: Small shocks postdoc a: Yeah . Oh grad h: OK , disk backup , et cetera ?  I spoke with Dave Johnson about putting all the Meeting Recorder stuff on non - backed - up disk to save the overhead of backup and he pretty much said " yeah , you could do that if you want " but he thought it was a bad idea . In fact what he said is doing the manual one , doing  NW archive to copy it is a good idea and we should do that and have it backed up . grad h: And so if a mistake is made and we lose the backup we should have the archive and if then a mistake is made and we lose the archive we should have the backup . professor b: Well I guess it is true that even with something that 's backed up it 's not gonna if it 's stationary it 's not going to go through the increment it 's not gonna burden things in the incremental backups . But he said that that we sh shouldn't worry too much about that , that we 're getting a new backup system and we 're far enough away from saturation on full backups that it 's w probably OK . professor b: Really ? grad h: And  , so the only issue here is the timing between getting more disks and  recording meetings . professor b: So I guess the idea is that we would be reserving the non - backed - up space for things that took less than twenty - four hours to recreate or something like that , right ? grad h: Things that are recreatable easily and also Yeah , basically things that are recreatable . professor b: Well I was allowing someone else to come up with something related that they had  phd e: I thought you guys were gonna burn C Ds ? grad h:  unfortunately we could burn C Ds but first of all it 's a pain . grad h: Because you have to copy it down to the PC and then burn it and that 's a multi - step procedure . And second of all the the write - once burners as opposed to a professional press don't last . grad h: So I think burning them for distribution is fine but burning them for backup is not a good idea . Can I add one top topic ? We have time ? I wanted to ask , I know that  that Thilo you were , bringing the Channeltrans interface onto the Windows machine ? And I wanted to know is th phd d: Yeah it 's it Basically it 's done , postdoc a: It 's all done ? That 's g wonderful . grad h: Yes , since Tcl - TK runs on it , basically things 'll just work . phd d: Yeah it Yeah , it was just a problem with the Snack version and the Transcriber version but it 's solved . Does this mean that the that this could be por  ported to a Think - Pad note or some other type of  phd d: Yeah , basically  I did install it on my laptop and yeah postdoc a: Wonderful . CrossPads ? CrossPads ? grad h:  got an email from  James Landay who basically said " if you 're not using them , could you return them ? " So he said he doesn't need them , he just periodically w at the end of each term sends out email to everyone who was recorded as having them and asks them if they 're still using them . professor b: Once ? grad h: We we used them a couple times , postdoc a:   phd f: Them ? There 's more than one ? grad h: but postdoc a: Yeah . professor b: But grad h: My opinion on it is , first , I never take notes anyway so I 'm not gonna use it ,  and second , it 's another level of infrastructure that we have to deal with . postdoc a: And I have  so my my feeling on it is that I think in principle it 's a really nice idea , and you have the time tags which makes it better tha than just taking ra raw notes . On the other hand , I the down side for me was that I think the pen is really noisy . And I and I don't know if it 's audible on the but I I sort of thought that was a disadvantage . I do take notes , I could be taking notes on these things and I guess the plus with the CrossPads would be the time markings but I don't know . phd d: what is a CrossPad ? professor b: So it 's it 's  it 's a regular pad , just a regular pad of paper but there 's this pen which indicates position . grad h: And then you can download it and they have OCR and searching and all sorts of things . grad h: But I don't take notes , professor b: And one of the reasons that it was brought up originally was because  we were interested in in higher - level things , grad h: so . professor b: not just the , you know , microphone stuff but also summarization and so forth and the question is if you were going to go to some gold standard of what wa what was it that happened in the meeting you know , where would it come from ? And  I think that was one of the things , phd d: Yeah . We 'll have a you know , have a scribe , have somebody  take good notes and then that 's part of the record of the meeting . And then we did it once or twice and we sort of grad h: Yep , and then just sort of died out . professor b: probably chose the wrong scribe but it was It 's  phd g:  grad h: Yeah that 's right . postdoc a: u but I guess the the other thing I 'm thinking is if we wanted that kind of thing I wonder if we 'd lose that much by having someone be a scribe by listening to the tape , to the recording afterwards and taking notes in some other interface . phd f:  we 're transcribing it anyways , why do we need notes ? postdoc a: Oh it 's la it 's useful , grad h: Because that 's summary . phd g: I think there 's also there 's this use that phd f: Summarize it from the transcription . phd g: the Well , what if you 're sitting there and you just wanna make an X and you don't wanna take notes and you 're you just wanna phd f: Doodle . phd g: get the summary of the transcript from this time location like you know , and and then while you 're bored you don't do anything and once in a while , maybe there 's a joke and you put a X and But in in other words you can use that just to highlight times in a very simple way . Also with I was thinking and I know Morgan disagrees with me on this but suppose you have a group in here and you wanna let them note whenever they think there might be something later that they might not wanna distribute in terms of content , they could just sort of make an X near that point or a question mark that sort of alerts them that when they get the transcript back they c could get some red flags in that transcript region and they can then look at it . I know we haven't been using it but I w I can imagine it being useful just for sort of marking time periods grad h: Right . professor b: I guess so , you know , what what makes one think i is maybe we should actually schedule some periods where people go over something later phd g: so . professor b: and and and put some kind of summary or something  you know , some there 'd be some scribe who would actually listen , w who 'd agreed to actually listen to the whole thing , not transcribe it , but just sort of write down things that struck them as important . But then you don't you don't have the time reference  that you 'd have if you had it live . And you don't have a lot of other cues that might be useful , professor b: Yeah . phd f: How do you synchronize the time in the CrossPad and the time of the recording ? phd g: so . grad h:  that was one of the issues we talked about originally and that that 's w part of the difficulty is that we need an infrastructure for using the time the CrossPads and so that means synchronizing the time phd g:  postdoc a:   grad h: You know you want it pretty close and there 's a fair amount of skew because it 's a hand - held unit with a battery postdoc a: Well when when I d grad h: and so you postdoc a: OK . grad h: so you have to synchronize at the beginning of each meeting all the pads that are being used , so that it 's synchronized with the time on that and then you have to download to an application , and then you have to figure out what the data formats are and convert it over if you wanna do anything with this information . phd e: Why grad h: And so there 's a lot of infrastructure which postdoc a: There is an alternative . grad h: unless someone postdoc a: There is an alternative , it 's still , there 's  you know , your point stands about there be needing to be an infrastructure , but it doesn't have to be synchronized with the little clock 's timer on it . You c  , I when I when I did it I synchronized it by voice , by whispering " one , two , three , four " onto the microphone grad h:  . grad h: Well , but then there 's the infrastructure at the other end phd e: Right . grad h: which someone has to listen to that and find that point , postdoc a: Yeah , it 's transcribed . phd g: Well , could we keep one of these things for another year ? Would h  is there a big cau grad h: We can keep all both of them for the whole whole year . phd g: just just in case we grad h: it 's just phd g: even maybe some of the transcribers who might be wanting to annotate  f just there 's a bunch of things that might be neat to do but I it might not be the case that we can actually synchronize them and then do all the infrastructure but we could at least try it out . professor b: Well one thing that we might try  is on some set of meetings , some collection of meetings , maybe EDU is the right one or maybe something else , we we get somebody to buy into the idea of doing this as part of the task . professor b:  part of the reason I think part of the reason that Adam was so interested in  the SpeechCorder sort of f idea from the beginning is he said from the beginning he hated taking notes and grad h: Yep . professor b: and so forth so and and Jane is more into it but eh  you know I don't know if you wanna really do do this all the time so I think the thing is to to get someone to actually buy into it and have at least some series of meetings where we do it . The p the the problem with the the more extended view , all these other you know with  quibbling about particular applications of it is that it looks like it 's hard to get people to   routinely use it ,  it just hasn't happened anyway . But maybe if we can get a person to phd g: Yeah I don't think it has to be part of a what everybody does in a meeting but it might be a useful , neat part of the project that we can , you know , show off as a mechanism for synchronizing events in time that happen that you just wanna make a note of , like what Jane was talking about with some later browsing , just just as a convenience , even if it 's not a full - blown note taking substitute . phd e: Well if you wanted to do that maybe the right architecture for it is to get a PDA with a wireless card . And and that way you can synchronize very easily with the the the meeting because you 'll be synchroni you can synchronize with the the Linux server and  phd g: So what kind of input would you be ? phd e: so so , if you 're not worried about grad h: Buttons . phd g: You 'd just be pressing like a a phd e: Well well you have a PDA and may and you could have the same sort of X interface or whatever , you 'd have to do a little eh a little bit of coding to do it . phd e: if if all you really wanted was you didn't want this secondary note - taking channel but just sort of being able to use m markers of some sort , a PDA with a l a wireless card would be the probably the right way to go . grad h:  for what what you 've been describing buttons would be even more convenient than anything else , phd g: M right . grad h: right ? You have the phd g: I don't have , you know , grandiose ideas in mind but I 'm just sort of thinking well we 've we 're getting into the next year now and we have a lot of these things worked out at in terms of the speech maybe somebody will be interested in this and postdoc a: I like this PDA idea . professor b: where like one one button was "  - oh " and then another button was " that 's great " and another button " that 's f " phd g: Or like this is my " I 'm supposed to do this " kind of button , postdoc a: Yeah . phd g: Yeah something like that or postdoc a: And then grad h:  I think the CrossPad idea is a good one . grad h: It 's just a question of getting people to use it and getting the infrastructure set up in such a way that it 's not a lot of extra work .  that 's part of the reason why it hasn't happened is that it 's been a lot of extra work for me phd g: Yeah . grad h: and postdoc a: But it 's also , it has this problem of having to go from an analog to a d a digital record too , phd g: W postdoc a: doesn't it ?  grad h: Well it 's digital but it 's in a format that is not particularly standard . postdoc a: But  , say , if i if if you 're writing if you 're writing notes in it does it it can't do handwriting recognition , right ? professor b: No , no , but it 's just it 's just storing the pixel informa position information , postdoc a: OK . postdoc a: I I guess what I 'm thinking is that the PDA solution you h you have it already without needing to go from the pixelization to a to a  professor b: Right . You don't have to phd e: The transfer function is less errorful , postdoc a: Oh , nicely put . phd g: Well it also it 's maybe realistic cuz people are supposed to be bringing their P D As to the meeting eventually , right ? That 's why we have this little I don't know what I don't wanna cause more work for anyone but I can imagine some interesting things that you could do with it and so if we don't have to return it and we can keep it for a year I don't know . grad h: Well w we don't we certainly don't have to return it , as I said . All all he said is that if you 're not using it could you return it , if you are using it feel free to keep it . The point is that we haven't used it at all and are we going to ? professor b: So we have no but  by I I would suggest you return one . phd g: We c professor b: We have some aspirations of using them phd g: One would probably be fine . professor b: and phd g: Maybe we could do like a student project , you know , maybe someone who wants to do this as their main like s project for something would be cool .  if we had them out and sitting on the table people might use them a little more professor b: Maybe Jeremy could sit in some meetings and press a button when there when when somebody laughed . grad h: although there is a little phd g: Well , I 'm yeah , that 's not a bad professor b: Yeah , yeah . phd g: Jeremy 's gonna be an he 's a new student starting on modeling brea breath and laughter , actually , which sounds funny but I think it should be cool , professor b: Yeah . phd g: You 're you 're gonna tease me ? grad h: Oh , equipment . grad h: And then at the same time I 'll probably rewire the room as per Jane 's suggestion so that  the first N channels are wireless , eh are the m the close - talking and the next N are far - field . professor b: You know what he means but isn't that funny sounding ? " We ordered more wireless . " It 's like wires are the things so you 're wiring you 're you 're you we 're we ordered more absence of the thing . phd g: I just it 's sort of a anachronism ,  it 's like It 's great . professor b:  there 's there 's all this stuff going on  between  Andreas and and and Dave and Chuck and others with various kinds of runs   recognition runs , trying to figure things out about the features but it 's it 's all sort of in process , so there 's not much to say right now . grad h: So just the transcript number and then the then the phd e: This is Yes , this is number two for me today . professor b: See all you have to do is go away to move way up in the phd e: Oh . grad h: Should we do simultaneous ? phd g: Well , I 'm just thinking , are you gonna try to save the data before this next group comes in ? professor b: Yeah . phd g: You have to plug your ears , by the way  Eric , grad h: Well I have to , phd d: You don't have to 